# STUDENT

{Katie Takacs}

## Assignment 2

So I had an adventure in lots of things this last week. First thing I did was follow the tutorial and make Pong 2D...and this took an embarrassing amount of time. Mostly because my ball kept going through my side walls and racket. I made sure I had BocCollider2D, I trouble shot, I went through the tutorial another 3 times. I finally reported a bug - because from what I saw on the forums, there were quite a few people having this issue. Turns out, I did not have a bug, I just had "Is Trigger" checked for my ball...which is wrong. At this point, I'd like to give a shout out to Julius form the QA Unity team for pointing this out, and being ever so patient with me on this one. Once that was all good, I played with pong2D a little by importing a new asset for the background (space), and adding a trailblazer (purple diffusion). (At the bottom of this, I have a link to my blog, which has some videos - for this inparticular, a sad NotSoMuchPong, and a triumphant Pong2DWorks.)

Then I went to work on making a new game.

My new game also has a saga. I finally settled on something I can deem a 'game,' though it's pretty rudimentary. I was trying to go for a Space Invaders thing, using raindrops and a bucket - the bucket would catch the rain. Each raindrop would disappear once it was caught in the bucket. And then once you get 10 drops, you win! (And there would even be a sound for winning...) I ran into some coding issues though, and I'm still working on those, but for now, I have a very simplified version of this game. Basically, there's 10 raindrops, the raindrop disappears after it hits the bucket. Once you get rid of all the raindrops, you win. The celebration portion isn't there (yet), but there are sound effects for the drops hitting - and one drop has the winning sound. (My cheap way of doing was to make this one raindrop move super slow, thinking that would mean it would be the last drop to hit the bucket. That doesn't work out entirely, but it was worth a shot.)

I will outline my steps in order, and explain some of the setbacks I had and things I'm looking into figuring out this weekend. But for now, I tried not to delete anything, just comment out what didn't work for me. As you can see, there was a lot that didn't work for me...

My main issues are figuring out how to code properly - I have very very very little coding experience, so I feel like I keep getting hung up on these little flubs. I have gotten better, but that still doesn't say much. I will say, the tiny triumphs I had were really exciting for me...I know they aren't big triumphs for anyone else, but I was really happy about them, and I'm looking forward to just getting better from here.

**Step 1
I got my graphics and audio clips together. My inspriation for this game is the wonderful song "Africa" by Toto. Basically, I've had it stuck in my head since Dax Shepard and Kristen Bell did their adorable little safari video where they lip sync to it. And listening to it, I kept thinking, this is like a video game track...and I went form there. I used Adobe Illustrator to trace and make little cartoon components of a bucket, a raindrop, and a safari background. In my files for the project, I have the original files, and Adobe Illustrator. The main thing is to export to a PNG. I used Adobe Audition to edit a background track, rain drop plop sound, and the winning track (the part of the chorus where they sing "I bless the rains down in Africa"). Once I got all this together, I was ready to open up Unity.

**Step 2
Open up Unity, and start a new project in 2D.
Create the folders for: Graphics, Sounds, Scenes, Scripts, and Prefabs (which I'm not sure I needed the Prefab folder, but I made it...).
Import all the components.
I started by importing the spritesheet (Go to Assets > Import New Asset, and import the PNG titled 'TotoGraphics'). Then, highlight the spritesheet, go to the Inspector, make sure the Sprite Mode says "Multiple", and click on the Sprite Editor. Then, highlight each component, relabel it, and close the Sprite Editor. I did a Background, Bucket, and Rain to start. Then, after some heartache with some things, I found it better to have an outside boundary, so that's when I went back into the Sprite Editor and pulled out a top (by pulling a rectangle of blue sky from the backgroun image), and bottom, and left and a right wall.
Once you have all these, drag and drop them into your Hierarchy - labeling them appropriately as you go. You can resize as you see fit - I made sure the Floor, Top, LeftWall, and RightWall were sized to blend into the background. For the Rain, just do one drop for right now...

**Step 3
Assign and start adding components:
 - Background:Make sure the Order in Layer is 0; drag and drop the audio file for "BackgroundToto_01" - make sure in Inspector the "Play on Awake" box is checked
 - Floor, Top, LeftWall, RightWall: You can highlight these all at once and make sure the Order in Layer is 1; Add Component > Physics 2D > Box Collider 2D
 - Bucket: Order in Layer 3; Add Component > Physics 2D > Rigidbody 2D: Gravity 0, Interpolate, Collision Detection: Continuous; Click the box for Freeze Rotation Z; Add Component > Polygon Collider 2D: Click the Edit Collider and edit the green collider outline for the bucket like you would like to by pulling different parts of the lines around (little handles automatincally pop up as you do this); Add Component > Audio > Audio Source > "Winning Toto_01" (I have this so that "Play On Awake" is clicked...this was supposed to be my winning noise, but I need ot figure out the coding for that still, so for now, it just plays whne you start playing...). Later we will add a C# script...
 - Rain: Order in Layer 2; Add Component > Rigidbody 2D: Mass is 1, Gravity Scale is 1, Interpolate, Sleeping Mode: Start Awake, Collision Detection: Continuous; Constraints > Freexe Rotation Z box is checked; Add Component > Box Collider 2D (we'll add a material to this later); Add Component > Audio > Audio Source, choose the "ADrop_01" file. Later we will add a C# script...
 
 **Step 4
 Right click in the Assets > Scripts, and pick Create > C# Script - make 2 of these and label them BucketRacket and RainDrop
 Write some scripts for the BucketRacket and RainDrop - go ahead and use the scripts that I have attached in the folder...below I'll explain some process that I went through with writing these...
    Here's where we get into the I'm still learning. So for right now, just use only these 2 scripts. If you really look at these, you'll see a lot of commented things and commented out ideas that I was trying. For the BucketRacket, I basically used the PongRacket script, but made it function on the horizontal rather than the vertical. The OnCollision portion I added simply because I was trying to find a way around my 'winning' conundrum...it didn't really work, so really it's just a way for me to get the 'Winning' audio clip in there.
    The RainDrop script is where I was really playing and learning...Here, I tried to incorporate a Space Invaders type scenario where I tried to turn my 'Top' into a Spawning Object, that would spawn my raindrops (as a prefab object). Writing the code for that proved to be difficult for me, and that's why this Unity file has a script for EnemySpaceInvader. I really wanted the drops to be like the alien ship, and the bucket to be like the little space ship, except the bucket wouldn't shoot, it would just catch the rain. What I ended up doing was just adding a bouncey material to the rain, and then make the rain delete itself 1 sec after it hit the bucket. I also thought about trying to make the Rain (or the Bucket) sticky, so the rain could bounce and stick to the bucket, but that proved complicated for me as well. So the code that's left actually running in the RainDrop script is a very dumbed down version of what I was aiming for. The good news is I can keep working on it! And I will - but for now, I feel like I found a way to still make a fun little game...
    
**Step 5
Let's make it rain...once I finished the script (and had written it) the thing I settled on meant I should make my Rain bouncey so that it can interact with the bucket a little more. So, I started by making the material. Go to the Graphics folder in Assets, right click > Create > Physics 2D Material. I labeled this Bounce, and made the Friction 0, and Bounciness 1. Then, I dragged and dropped this over my Rain in the Hierarchy (you can also go to the Rain Inspector, and it will be int eh Box Collider 2D in the Material slot). Here, I turned the Rain into prefab...I went to my Prefab folder in Assets, right clicked > Create > Prefab, labeled it Rain, and dragged the Rain from Hierarchy onto the prefab icon I created down in the assets. Then, I copied and pasted 10 Prefab Rain's into the hierarchy, and labeled each one a number. From there, I placed them to fall in different spots. Then, I played with different settings for each one randomly - I changed the Speed in the Inspector > C# Rain Drop Script; and in the Inspector > Audio Source I toyed with the Volume, and Stereo Pan. For Rain10 I tried to make that one really slow, and changed the AudioClip to be 'Winning', thinking that would be a ghetto way to have that be the last drop and be a winning sound...It didn't really work, but there's no bad ideas in brainstorming.

**Step 6
Hit play, and move the bucket left and right until all the drops are 'caught'.

All in all, I think the best part of this game is the music...because it's just fun to play. It's a very very distilled version of what I originally wanted. But I'm honestly really proud of it, and it's silliness. I want to keep working on figuring out what's going on. I think the coding issues I had were probably really simple, and a matter of just figuring out how to say something in C# for this version of Unity. A lot fo the things I search for int eh forums and online were for older versions of Unity. Ad some of the older code I was able to doctor and figure out for the current version.....but overall, I struck out a lot. 
I think I also need to work on a start and end screen, as well as a scoring system. But I think I'd like to figure out one thing at a time and get the Spawning Object idea to work first...I think I got super close, it's just a couple of things I need to figure out.
That's all I have for right now - thank you to all the random forums and people I asked silly questions to along the away.
[Here is the link to this blog entry with some videos of failed attempts and some success] (http://www.katattakacs.com/itp/2016/02/18/pong-and-beyond/)
